When the musher and sled dog team led by Balto raced into Nome, they saved a town from dying from disease and distance. The 1925 Nome serum run also had four longterm impacts: it highlighted disparities between Alaska and the mainland United States' infrastructure, which garnered more resources and rendered sled dogs obsolete, resisted the post-industrialization cult of progress , and the valorization of sled dogs contributed to dog ownership skyrocketing within the next few decades. 

In January 1925, a diphtheria outbreak occurred in Nome, a remote Alaskan town. diphtheria itself is already a contagious and deadly disease. Furthermore, Nome's residents, mostly Native Alaskans, lacked a natural immunity [Aboul-Enein, Puddy & Bowser,287](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28032302/). Additionally, Nome's children were at even greater risk of becoming infected, developing complications and dying. The diphtheria vaccine did not exist yet, so the antitoxin was the only hope. Alaskan infrastructure and towns were undeveloped compared to the mainland. The closest antitoxins were in Anchorage, Fairbanks and Seattle. Anchorage was the closest. Still, Alaska's challenging, unsettled and undeveloped land, meant the antitoxin would somehow have to travel hundreds of difficult miles to Nome. Even in the best weather, the journey would have been long and difficult. However, at least air or sea transportation may have been possible during the summer. But the outbreak occurred in the dead of winter. There were no roads and cars that could go to Nome. Pilots and their open cockpit planes were not familiar with Alaskan terrain. [Aboul-Enein, Puddy & Bowser,290](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28032302/) Even if they were, they or the engines likely would have frozen.[Aboul-Enein, Puddy & Bowser,290](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28032302/) Similarly, the sea was too cold for ships to deliver the antitoxin from somewhere in the mainland, such as Seattle. [Aboul-Enein, Puddy & Bowser,287](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28032302/). Furthermore, it would have taken too long. [Aboul-Enein, Puddy & Bowser,287](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28032302/) Despite the drastic industrial changes in technology, science and transportation, this predicament illustrated that there were limits to modernity..

Thus, saving Nome depended on sled dogs, an ancient and indigenous form of transportation. It contrasts the newer forms of transportation, particularly trains and cars. Increasing numbers of Americans were adopting cars in the early twentieth century, particularly Ford cars. These sled dogs juxtaposed these new forms of progress and technology. Specifically, preventing disaster hinged 20, mostly indigenous men and 150 dogs [Salisbury & Salisbury,159](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). 

Delivering the antitoxin from Anchorage to Nome was  a relay race. Those in Anchorage shipped the antitoxin by railway to the closest stop, Neanna [Salisbury & Salisbury,137](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). This was as far as industrial technology and Alaskan infrastructure allowed. Only mushers and their sled dogs could traverse the rest of the journey. This illustrated the distance and separation in Alaska. Not only was the state separate from the mainland, its geography and underfunded infrastructure meant that Alaska was divided within the state. This map features 5 key locations: Nome, Anchorage, Nenana alaska, Seattle and Fairbanks.The map illustrates the vastness of the landscape. It also emphasises the distance – not only was the journey long, it was dangerous and underdeveloped. At the time, much of Alaska was connected due to the few roads and railways. The map illustrates the remoteness of Nome. The map illustrates how Nome (and Alaska in general) far are from the mainland. In particular, Seattle was the closest place in the mainland with the antitoxin - and even it was too far. Nome's extreme inaccessibility and healthcare disparities highlighted the inequality between Alaska and the mainland United States.In essence, Nome was not only physically distant from the mainland, but also culturally and politically, given the lack of infrastructure and healthcare. Newspapers across the country covered the serum run with a fervour, which brought the state back into mainland consciousness and bridged the distance.

The serum run largely occurred because Nome did not have the resources to treat diphtheria alone and because Alaska's infrastructure was so lacking. The necessity for a desperate and dangerous race across the Alaskan tundra made it clear to Alaskans and mainland Americans alike that change was required, lest this happen again [Salisbury & Salisbury,177](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). Thus, local politicians leveraged this spotlight to advocate for increased infrastructure and funding [Salisbury & Salisbury,177](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). Ironically, while the sled dogs brought this issue into the limelight, its ensuing solution, increased infrastructure, also rendered them obsolete to settler Americans [Salisbury & Salisbury,238](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). 

The reliance on indigenous knowledge and sled dogs resists the post-industrialization confidence in being able to dominate nature.The early twentieth century was a time optimism regarding mankind and the possibilities of technology [Salisbury & Salisbury,238](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). In this view, man could dominate and control the Earth with technology and science [Salisbury & Salisbury,238](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). Alaska’s unforgiving and hostile weather and landscape showed the cracks in the facade. Furthermore, the serum was not a battle or race against an enemy. It was just nature. Likewise, other incidents such as the 1918 Spanish Flu epidemic resisted the notion that man could overcome any problem through innovation. Ultimately it was mostly Native Alaskans and their traditional sled dogs that went where the latest boats, planes or vehicles could not. [Salisbury & Salisbury,138](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). Furthermore, native Alaskans supplied most of knowledge regarding terrain and sled dogs [Salisbury & Salisbury,111-112](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4865844). The urgency of the race spurred national media coverage as those all over the mainland waited in suspense for victory or diseaster.

Newspapers all over the country covered the race. The media fervour valorized the sled dogs. For instance, Togo, the lead sled dog of the last team, arrived in town and lived the rest of his life as hero. Togo is even commemorated in statues. According to the depictions, these sled dogs were not just workers - they were heroes. These cultural depictions, alongside stories of K9s in World War 1, elevated the status of  dogs in the United States [Jones 116](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4749405). Before, most Americans did not see dogs as companions or family members [Jones 116](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4749405). At best, they were useful workers who earned their keep [Jones 116](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4749405). Or, they were nuisances and dirty [Jones 116](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4749405). Stories of heroic dogs began to change these opinions. These early twentieth century narratives are one key reason behind the dramatic increase in dog ownership during the 20th century [Jones 116](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?4749405). In essence, the serum run immediately saved the lives of Nome's residents. Its impact also crossed over to a plethora of other areas. The race's long lasting impact is exemplified in the Iditarod race in which mushers race across the same path. Thus while sled dogs may be technologically obsolete in an increasingly accessible Alaska, their cultural legacy will never be.
